[IMP]  accounting: updated bank statement page (#2373)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/bank/feeds/bank_statements.rst

===============
Bank statements
===============

Importing your bank statements allows you to keep track of your bank account transactions and
reconcile them with the ones recorded in Odoo.

We recommend using :doc:`the bank synchronization feature <bank_synchronization>` for more
efficiency. However, if you do not want to use it or if your bank is not yet supported, other
options exist:

- Import the bank statement files delivered by your bank;
- Register the bank statements manually.

Import bank statements files
============================

Odoo supports multiple file formats to import bank statements:

- SEPA recommended Cash Management format (CAMT.053);
- Comma-separated values (.CSV);
- Open Financial Exchange (.OFX);
- Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF);
- Belgium: Coded Statement of Account (.CODA).

> To import a file, go to the Accounting dashboard and click on :guilabel:`Import (Statements)` under
> the bank card, or click on the drop-down menu ⋮ button and then on :guilabel:`Import Statement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import a file, go to the Accounting dashboard and click on :guilabel:`Import (Statements)` under
the :guilabel:`Bank` card, or click on the drop-down menu button (:guilabel:`⋮`) and then on :guilabel:`Import Statement`.
```
- I would guilabel Bank as it appears on the UI and we refer to the specific UI element.
- I wonder if adding the word 'card' is clear for the average user (I know, it's my suggestion). Technically, it's a Kanban card, but maybe there is a better word for it.
- drop-down menu ⋮ button -> drop-down menu button (:guilabel:`⋮`). Now you can remove the brackets if you prefer, but I would put the vertical ellipsis character at the end. And guilabeling it as it's a UI element

.. image:: bank_statements/bank-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Import a bank statement file in Odoo Accounting

Next, select the file you want to import and click on :guilabel:`Upload`.

Once the file uploaded, the **import widget** helps you set formatting options and **map** the
different columns you want to import. You also can :guilabel:`test` the bank statement file before
importing it to your database.

.. image:: bank_statements/import-bank-statement.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Register bank statements manually in Odoo Accounting

Register bank statements manually
=================================

> If needed, you can also record your bank statements manually. To do so, go to the Accounting
> dashboard and click on the :guilabel:`Create Statements` under the bank card. Alternatively, you can
> click the drop-down menu ⋮ button, and then :guilabel:`New Statement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, you can also record your bank statements manually. To do so, go to the :guilabel:`Accounting
Dashboard` and click on the :guilabel:`Create Statements` under the :guilabel:`Bank` card. Alternatively, you can
click the drop-down menu button (:guilabel:`⋮`), and then :guilabel:`New Statement`.
```
Guilabels :eyes:

movements that occur on your bank accounts and reconcile them with the transactions recorded in your
accounting.

We recommend using :doc:`bank_synchronization` for more efficiency. However, if you do not want to

> use **bank synchronization** or if your bank is not a supported institution, other options exists:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use **bank synchronization** or if your bank is not a supported institution, other options exist:
```

> movements that occur on your bank accounts and reconcile them with the transactions recorded in your

Author: Good suggestion

accounting.

We recommend using :doc:`bank_synchronization` for more efficiency. However, if you do not want to
use **bank synchronization** or if your bank is not a supported institution, other options exist:

- Import the bank statement files delivered by your bank;
- Register the bank statements manually.

Import bank statements files
============================

Odoo supports multiple file formats to import bank statements:

- SEPA recommended Cash Management format (CAMT.053);
- Comma-separated values (.CSV);
- Open Financial Exchange (.OFX);
- Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF);
- Belgium: Coded Statement of Account (.CODA).

To import a file, go to :menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Overview --> Bank`, click on
:guilabel:`Import Statements`, or click on the ⋮ button and then on :guilabel:`Import Statement`.

.. image:: bank_statements/bank-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Import a bank statement file in Odoo Accounting

> Next, select the file you want to import and click on :guilabel:`Import`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, select the file you want to import and click on :guilabel:`Upload`.
```

Odoo opens an **import widget** to help you set the :guilabel:`Formatting Options` and **map** the

> different columns you want to import. You also have the possibility to :guilabel:`test` the bank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different columns you want to import. You also can :guilabel:`test` the bank
```
Suggestion to shorten

> statement file before uploading it to your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statement file before importing it to your database.
```

.. image:: bank_statements/import-bank-statement.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Register bank statements manually in Odoo Accounting

.. note::

>    **Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF)** is no longer supported since 2005.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF)** is no longer supported since 2005.
```
You can import QIF files but they are no longer supported? It's a bit confusing. I would either: remove that note or be more specific.

Author: I think what is happening here is that (.QIF) is no longer supported by whoever made it, but Odoo can still read the file format. I'll just remove the note altogether anyways

Register bank statements manually
=================================

If needed, you can also record your bank statements manually. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Overview --> Bank`, click on :guilabel:`Create Statements`,

> or on the ⋮ button and then on :guilabel:`New Statement`. Add a new line for each transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or on the drop-down menu button (:guilabel:`⋮`) and then on :guilabel:`Statement` under :guilabel:`New`. Add a new line for each transaction
```

- Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF)
- Belgium: Coded Statement of Account (.CODA)

To import a file, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Overview --> Bank`, click on

> :guilabel:`Import Statements`, or on the ⋮ button and then on :guilabel:`Import Statement`.

Reviewer 2: Is it necessary to mention the different paths..? I think just mentioning the Import Statement option available from the Dashboard is enough but that's a minor comment. Up to you :)

Author: Just so people know, and this way they also discover/know about the other options available by clicking on the vertical ellipsis :)

.. image:: bank_statements/bank-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Import a bank statement file in Odoo Accounting

Next, select the file you want to import and click on :guilabel:`Import`.

Odoo opens an **import widget** to help you set the **Formatting Options** and **map** the

> different columns you want to import. You also have the possibility to **test** the bank statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
different columns you want to import. You also have the possibility to :guilabel:`Test` the bank statement
```

file before uploading it to your database.

.. image:: bank_statements/import-bank-statement.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Register bank statements manually in Odoo Accounting

.. note::

>    Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF) is an older file format that is no longer supported since 2005. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF) is no longer supported since 2005. 
```

   If possible, prefer .OFX files over .QIF.

Register bank statements manually
=================================

If needed, you can also record your bank statements manually.

> To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Overview --> Bank`, click on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Bank`, click on
```
